Fri Mar 15 13:55:11 EDT 2013
============================

Instagram talk now.

Redis db

Async background broker

"Justin Bieber problem"

(Didn't say how their broker was built -- MQ like?)

Oh. They're using Gearman.

 - Simple purpose built task queue
 - Weak Framework Support

 * They ran out of memory and crashed, no recovery
 * "Probably should have used Redis at this point"

Now enters Celery (yay)

 - celeryd
 - excellent django support

Which broker?

Redis
+ Already use it
+ Very Fast, Efficient
- Polling for Task Distribution
- Messy Non-Synchronous Replication
- Memory Limits Task Capacity

Beanstalk
+ Purpose-Built Task Queue
+ Very Fast, Efficient
+ Pushes to Consumers
+ Spills to Disk
- No Replication
- Useless For Anything Else

RabbitMQ (ha, that's what I plan to use)
+ Reasonably Fast, Efficient
+ Spill-To-Disk
+ Low-Maintenance Synchronous Replication
+ Excellent Celery Compatibility
+ Support

RabbitMQ 3.0

EC2 c1.xlarge, RAID instance storage
- "Way Overprovisioned"

Alerting
~~~~~~~~
We use Sensu
Monitors & alerts on queue length threshold
... rabbitmctl


Graphing
~~~~~~~~
...

# Missed writing this section

Round robin approach to select a broker

~25,000 app threads, publishing tasks

Span datacenters

Celery only supported 1 broker host last year when we started
Created kombu-multibroker "shim"
Multiple brokers used in ...

Concurrency Models
+ multiproc
- eventlet
+ gevent
- threads

"gevent is cool and all but..."

*Separate slow and fast tasks*

# At a hack level, but a reasonable design choice

"NLP Proof gives us choices -- to retry or not to retry"

*Publisher confirms*
* AMQP default is that we don't know if things were published or not
* Publisher Confirms makes broker send acks back on publishes
* kombu-multibroker forces this
* Can cause dup...

"Avoid using async tasks as a 'backup' mechanism only during failures. It'll probably break."

They avoided pickling things and went with super simple object passing...

# Why not protobufs, thrift, json, avro, etc.?

Summary
~~~~~~~

Celery + RabbitMQ
Kombu

Actions for me
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Build rabbit-in-a-box
* Try out celery

Fri Mar 15 14:32:19 EDT 2013
============================

Now at Asheesh Laroia's "Scrapy it GETs the web"

Loved his statement "CSS gives you an API incidentally built by web designers"

scrapyd is a daemon you can throw scrapy projects at. I'll try that out later.

Better disable the telnet console

Async kitty

import spidermonkey
# Firefox's javascript runtime

Use selenium

Scrapy -> Django :)

Fri Mar 15 15:11:18 EDT 2013
============================

Onto the Sphinx automation talk.

First up, reStructuredText is awesome.

"Issue roles for simplicity" -- makes you tied to the design of your text, but gives you programmability and agility



Fri Mar 15 17:47:57 EDT 2013
============================

Met with Travis Oliphant of Continuum Analytics.

Thanked Kenneth Reitz for python-guide.

:D

Walked in late to the GitHub visualization talk

tmux - terminal multiplexer

We used MongoDB for data crunching on a budget.

Network
-------
git != github
author != git user

celery as asynchronous task queue

celery in the cloud
Heroku's first dyno is free, nobody says it has to be a web dyno...

redis for broker, result store

There's no storage for Heroku, by design

Data set always changing (github)

Idempotency -- *Do* Repeat Yourself (without shooting yourself in the foot)

# Definitely going to need to watch this over -- I want to see their overall infrastructure

Oh holy crap, they're making their data available. We need to grab that!


Fri Mar 15 18:13:44 EDT 2013
============================

Visualization of GitHub

umbrella.io
pushpin
Mixpanel for geo

One of Django's core designers

design is constraints

acquire
parse
filter
mine
represent
 ...

Choosing a visual representation
--------------------------------

Tell a story

All in common -> Convey some meaning

Meaning requires context

Choosing a medium

Choosing an audience

One size fits nobody.

Their audience
^ Know about github
^ Passing knowledge of coding



processing.js -- written by jQuery guy
Logo for the modern computer

D3 -- data visualization toolkit for the web
# Already love it. Preaching to the choir.

He's covering d3 scales and color scales.

d3 goes well beyond rgb

Didn't imagine he was going to give a talk on D3.

I totally need to build up some skill with D3 for my next data focused project.

Yeeha SVG, JSON, and CSV.

json is good for structured data
json is bloated for tabular data

# Tabular data in CSV
# Structured data in JSON

Datapoints
----------
name
user

rank
watchers
commits
size

earliest commit


Oh data viz. Like writing, you're going to have to toss some.

Chord diagram/Hairball diagram for networks.

They looked at contributions across languages.

The polyglots alone are pretty interesting.

They're calling this the Polyglot Project (but it's not up on the web yet, and the name is taken by other projects too)


Fri Mar 15 20:09:53 EDT 2013
----------------------------

Missed out on the Big Data Algorithms talk (well, part of it). He used bloomfilters to store graph data. I definitely need to watch the video from that talk.

Now I'm at the write the docs talk.

Software users compared to sloths -- we can somehow get by with little documentation and thrive, just as sloths don't need much food.

"Make happy sloths"

Your users have multi-part stomachs.

New users
~~~~~~~~~

* Assume nothing
* Don't bury them in details (don't go heavy on the jargon)


Experienced Users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Assume a few things
* Include plenty of links and cross-references
* Give practical examples

GAH! Battery dying.

No more notes. Over and out.


